Axonserver 4.4 new features (#155)
AxonIQ/reference-guide: axon-server/administration/multi-context.md

To recap the definition as we have seen in the [clustering](multi-context.md) section, contexts allow for strong segregation of data without requiring deploying and managing full instances.

An Axon Server EE cluster can be setup to store events for multiple contexts. Each context has it own set of files \(containing Event/Snapshot data\) stored in a separate directory.

> Axon Server will replicate the context data to a number of nodes depending on the replication group where the context you assign the context to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Axon Server will replicate the context data to a number of nodes depending on the replication group the context is assigned to.
```

When you are creating a context you can either add it to an already existing replication group, or create a new replication group for this context.

> More on replication groups can be found in the [clustering]() section.

Reviewer: The `[clustering]()` is not linking to any other document or section.

When you create a context, there are a number of default properties that you can override, specifically for the context. These are:

| property | default value | description |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| event.storage |  [axoniq.axonserver.event.storage]/[context-name] | Location where the event store's event information will be stored |
| event.segment-size | 250MB | Size of the event store's event segments |

> | event.index-format | JUMP_SKIP_INDEX | Index type used for the events this context (JUMP_SKIP_INDEX or BLOOM_FILTER_INDEX |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| event.index-format | JUMP_SKIP_INDEX | Index type used for the events in this context (JUMP_SKIP_INDEX or BLOOM_FILTER_INDEX |
```

> | event.max-bloom-filters-in-memory | 100 | Number of bloom filters for events to be kept in memory (only applicable if index is BLOOM_FILTER_INDEX) ||

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| event.max-bloom-filters-in-memory | 100 | Number of bloom filters for events to be kept in memory (only applicable if index is BLOOM_FILTER_INDEX) |
```

| event.max-indexes-in-memory | 50 | Number of index files for events to be kept in memory | 
| event.retention-time | 7d | Retention time for the events in the primary locations (if secondary location specified) |
| snapshot.storage |  [axoniq.axonserver.snapshot.storage]/[context-name] | Location where the event store's event information will be stored |
| snapshot.segment-size | 250MB | Size of the event store's snapshot segments |

> | snapshot.index-format | JUMP_SKIP_INDEX | Index type used for the snapshots this context (JUMP_SKIP_INDEX or BLOOM_FILTER_INDEX |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| snapshot.index-format | JUMP_SKIP_INDEX | Index type used for the snapshots in this context (JUMP_SKIP_INDEX or BLOOM_FILTER_INDEX |
```

> | snapshot.max-bloom-filters-in-memory | 100 | Number of bloom filters for snapshots to be kept in memory (only applicable if index is BLOOM_FILTER_INDEX) ||

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| snapshot.max-bloom-filters-in-memory | 100 | Number of bloom filters for snapshots to be kept in memory (only applicable if index is BLOOM_FILTER_INDEX) |
```

| snapshot.max-indexes-in-memory | 50 | Number of index files for snapshots to be kept in memory | 
| snapshot.retention-time | 7d | Retention time for the snapshots in the primary locations (if secondary location specified) |

## Index formats

As of version 4.4, Axon Server has a new format for the index of events and snapshots, called JUMP_SKIP_INDEX. This is the default format

> for all contexts that are created from this version. This index format uses a global index to locate the last event for a specific aggregate, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for all contexts that are created from this version. This index format uses a global index to locate the last event for a specific aggregate, 
```
```suggestion
for all contexts that are created from this version unwards. This index format uses a global index to locate the last event for a specific aggregate, 
```

and maintains per segment per aggregate the location of the previous event. It improves the efficiency in looking up aggregates that are 
distributed over segments that are further apart. For instance if you have 2000 event segments and an aggregate has events in segment 1500, 1000 and 500,
using this index, Axon Server will find the latest event using the global index, and then from the index for segment 1500 that the previous event is in
segment 1000. This prevents checking (the indexes of) all the files in between. When using this index, Axon Server will no longer create bloom filter files.
For existing contexts the index format will remain BLOOM_FILTER_INDEX.
 

> >  _Note that when you delete an existing context with the preserve data option and then recreate it, without specifying the index format, 
>  Axon Server will use the JUMP_SKIP_INDEX format. This means that it will create a new index for the existing data, if the old format was BLOOM_FILTER_INDEX.
>  Depending on the size of the event store this can take a long time_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Pre-4.4 Context Deletion**
> 
> Note that when you delete an existing context with the preserve data option and then recreate it, without specifying the index format, 
> Axon Server will use the JUMP_SKIP_INDEX format. This means that it will create a new index for the existing data, if the old format was BLOOM_FILTER_INDEX.
> Depending on the size of the event store this can take a long time.
```

## Multi-tier storage

Another feature that is available from Axon Server version 4.4 is multi-tier storage. With this option you can choose to keep only the most recent
event store on your primary nodes, and keep the full event store on the secondary nodes. The primary nodes can have fast (more expensive) disks, and the
secondary nodes can have less expensive disks. As most of the reads will typically be done on the most recent data, it could reduce storage cost 
without too much impact on performance. The time period for which evens will be kept on the primary nodes is set using the retention time properties.
Axon Server provides global settings, which can be set in the axonserver.properties file, and it allows you to set the retention time on the context level.

> To use multi-tier storage the replication group for the context must have nodes with SECONDARY role. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the multi-tier storage feature, the replication group for the context must have nodes with the SECONDARY role. 
```

$ java -jar ./axonserver-cli.jar register-context -S http://[node]:[port] -c [context-name] -n [members]‌
```

This will create a new replication group with the name of the context, with the specified member nodes, and creates a context in this replication group.

Another example:

```text
$ java -jar ./axonserver-cli.jar register-context -S http://[node]:[port] -c [context-name] -g [replication-group]‌ -prop event.storage=[location]  -prop snapshot.storage=[location]
```

> This creates a new context in an already existing replication group.  Stores the event and snapshot files in the specified location 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This creates a new context in an already existing replication group. Event and snapshot files are stored in the specified location.
```
